SURMA: Can we have,
like, a pile of papers
so every time we can go like--
JAKE: Now on web news.
There we go.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
SURMA: Oh, are we
talking Smoosh now?
JAKE: Well, I guess
we should describe
what actually happened.
SURMA: Yeah, it might actually
not be clear for everyone,
that there is no SmooshGate
and actually don't
know what is behind this.
So MooTools.
JAKE: MooTools is one of the
ancient JavaScript libraries
which modified the
Prototype chain.
SURMA: And they had
things like array tooling
and probably lots of
other things as well.
It was like pre-jQuery?
JAKE: Yes, I would say,
or it's certainly--
SURMA: Same year
at least, right?
JAKE: Yeah.
I mean, it was very similar to
Prototype, which was definitely
pre-jQuery.
So they were modifying-- adding
things to array, objects.
So loads of stuff.
Now, I thought that--
so we had array.flatten
is the proposal that TC-39 made.
And it's like a stage 3.
And we spoke about it a
couple of episodes ago.
SURMA: Did we?
JAKE: Yes.
SURMA: Oh, yeah-- oh,
flatten and flatMap.
JAKE: And flatMap.
SURMA: FlatMap.
JAKE: Yes.
I think it was in one
of the Christmas ones.
But the problem is is MooTools
also had array.flatten.
Now at first, I
thought the problem was
that they were doing if
not array.prototype.flatten
and then they would
add their own.
SURMA: Which I think
they are doing.
JAKE: No, this is the thing.
Because I went into
the MooTools' code,
and they are overwriting
that method no matter what.
SURMA: But then
where's the problem?
JAKE: Because this is the thing.
That's the right thing to do--
well, If you must
override a prototype.
If there isn't a spec
to follow, then--
yeah, you have to always--
SURMA: You do it
unconditionally.
JAKE: Yes, because otherwise
in the future something else
comes along with a
different behavior
and has taken over
your namespace.
SURMA: I was under
the impression
it did it conditionally.
JAKE: No.
The real problem is even
more interesting than that.
And it's nothing to do with
code that calls array.flatten.
Ooh.
SURMA: Ooh.
JAKE: This is where we would
cut for the next episode
if we wanted to
retain more viewers.
SURMA: Cue the "X-Files" theme.
JAKE: Yes, tune in next week to
find out what it's actually on.
So they had this
thing called elements,
which is sort of
representing, essentially,
an array of elements.
SURMA: Is that the thing that
[INAUDIBLE] had underscored us,
where you say like,
underscore parentheses
and it wraps an entire array.
JAKE: It could very
well be like that.
I mean this is certainly
what jQuery does.
SURMA: OK.
Or the jQuery elements that
you'd-- that they did with
a dollar.
JAKE: Which is
sort of inheriting
from array-- sort of kind of.
It's array-like.
And what-- they had
a bit of code that--
to save time, they thought,
well, this elements thing--
it's kind of-- we want it to
behave a lot like an array.
So let's do a for in
loop of all the stuff
we've added onto
the array prototype.
SURMA: OK.
JAKE: OK?
SURMA: Mm-hmm.
JAKE: Yeah?
So if you do
array.prototype.foo and set that
to a function or something,
that becomes enumerable.
If you do a for in loop,
that key is going to appear.
SURMA: OK.
JAKE: Yeah?
But if you do
array.prototype.sort and set
that to a different function,
it remains not enumerable,
because sort--
SURMA: Because the
properties are defined as a--
not enumerable property.
JAKE: Exactly.
SURMA: Interesting.
JAKE: And that's what happened
is by shipping array.flatten,
it became non-enumerable.
So their added
method was no longer
showing up in this for in loop.
So it was no longer being
added to their elements object.
SURMA: And so those people who
are using the wrapped element
couldn't call flatten anymore.
JAKE: Couldn't call
flatten anymore.
SURMA: Despite unconditionally
overriding the prototype.
JAKE: Exactly.
SURMA: So that's interesting.
So because they defined--
because TC-39 wanted
to ship flatten.
It would have
removed the function
from the people
relying on MooTools.
JAKE: Yes.
SURMA: That is very unintuitive.
Interesting.
JAKE: And that was
a surprise to me,
that it would remain
non-enumerable.
SURMA: Really?
Because if the property exists,
you are assigning a new value.
JAKE: Yeah.
SURMA: Like, it makes sense.
JAKE: I suppose it
does make sense.
But when I read that,
it was like, oh.
Yeah, OK.
SURMA: So that's why
the first intuition was
to not ship TC-39's
flatten as flatten,
but under a different name to
just avoid the whole clash.
JAKE: There was a Twitter poll
done by someone in TC-39 of,
like, what should we do here?
Should we break the web?
Should we call it Smoosh?
Shall we change, like, how
our implementation works
to match MooTools?
SURMA: That wouldn't
solve anything.
JAKE: Exactly.
Because they were already
unconditionally overwriting it,
and that's why I think, oh--
I have some sympathy for
people who were confused by it,
because I was confused by it.
SURMA: That was very confusing--
three, four days.
I mean, technically,
it's still going,
I think, at the time
of recording this,
still people are going-- eee.
JAKE: Yes, and
one of the options
is to rename the flatten
method to something--
SURMA: Like, let's say, Smoosh.
JAKE: Like Smoosh.
And Smoosh is the joke one.
But it was a PR for it.
So is that a joke?
I don't know.
I think that's--
I think that was an in-joke
that sort of leaked out.
SURMA: Maybe.
Turns out GitHub is not private.
JAKE: Exactly.
Yeah, it's not a
place for in-jokes.
And so people were kind of angry
at this ridiculous method name.
SURMA: Yeah.
To be fair, I think in
name, it hasn't shipped yet
and was an unreasonable
amount of anger.
JAKE: I think some people
felt it was a done deal.
And it's not.
It's still in
absolutely [INAUDIBLE]..
SURMA: Maybe that's
where the confusion came,
was the most drastic [INAUDIBLE]
JAKE: Or when there's a PR
to actually change the method
name, it's reasonable to think
that it's got a little bit--
SURMA: Well, it's a PR.
It's not merge.
When it was in merge
it would be like.
JAKE: Right,
SURMA: Right?
JAKE: That's fair enough.
So yeah, so the options really
are rename it or break the web.
And there are a lot of
sites in the top 1,000 sites
that are using Moo
MooTools, whether they're
using elements.flatten, we don't
have the data for that yet.
SURMA: I think
Paul Irish has said
it's like 1.8% of something?
JAKE: Well, that
was using MooTools.
SURMA: Yeah.
JAKE: So we don't
know that they're
using the flatten as well.
SURMA: Well, of course,
but at least you
can see that MooTools,
despite its age
or however you
want to look at it,
it's still on fairly
many page loads.
JAKE: Exactly.
So it's a big risk.
And we have seen
big sites break.
Well, Firefox [INAUDIBLE]
break in the Nightly
with flatten shipped.
A lot of people
are saying, well,
MooTools is stupid
for doing that.
And then some people are jumping
to MooTools' defense going,
well, we didn't know back then.
And that's a lie, because we
did, because I was writing
JavaScript libraries back then.
And a lot of those who were
writing libraries which
didn't touch the
prototype were shouting
at the libraries
that were going,
this is going to become
a problem really soon.
SURMA: The prophet!
JAKE: Yeah.
But I mean, we saw it
happen with a prototype.
They had getElements
by class name.
And that clashed with a
real method eventually.
So we knew this was a problem.
So, yeah.
SURMA: I think same with
the array has contains
and class list has includes.
And like that contains
includes and has or something,
the triple of these functions
completely inconsistent
because of other libraries
hogging that name in the past.
JAKE: Yes.
So we have string contains
rather than string includes.
And it is for exactly the
same reason as Smoosh,
as the flatten.
But it's the same bit
of code in MooTools.
SURMA: Oh, it's
also in MooTools.
didn't know that.
JAKE: Yes, it's the for in loop.
So MooTools is wrong A, for
messing around with prototypes.
But B, the way they are
completely unsubjectively wrong
is that for in loop
is not doing what
they think it does, because
it's not catering for the idea
that methods will come in later
and change the enumerability
of properties.
We can't punish
MooTools for this.
Because if you break the web,
you're not punishing MooTools,
you're punishing
the users of sites.
SURMA: I think--
I had this idea, and I would
like to call it quirks mode.
JAKE: Right.
Oh.
So, OK, so what would
your new trigger be for--
SURMA: If you include MooTools,
you are in quirks mode.
JAKE: So that has
been considered.
And that is still--
SURMA: Really?
JAKE: --on the table,
to some degree.
SURMA: [LAUGHS]
JAKE: Well, because we've done
it before, like document.all.
Document.all is a
thing that works.
But if document.all
returns false, it doesn't--
Yeah, you do know--
yeah.
Document.all inside an if
statement will be falsey.
SURMA: Interesting.
JAKE: Even though it's an
object with properties.
And this was because
a lot of code
would branch on
that document.all.
SURMA: As a detection
kind of thing.
JAKE: Yeah.
And this is the part where my
memory's fading a little bit.
But I think people were using
it as a branch for IE or not.
I can't remember.
It was used as a big assumption
of the browser, which
is no longer true.
So in order for the browser
to support document.all
for sites that
were still using it
but didn't want to be part
of those if statements,
that's why that was introduced.
So it is possible that
we introduced them kind
of similar hacks [INAUDIBLE].
SURMA: Oh, boy.
JAKE: Yeah.
But if you override
array.prototype.flatten
and it becomes enumerable,
it's a horrible hack.
And it's really silly but--
SURMA: It would break less
sites than the other way around.
JAKE: Yes.
But it just means that when you
teach JavaScript to someone,
you have to go, oh, by the way,
if you overwrite a property,
it remains its
enumerability except for.
SURMA: The web is like
French at this point.
You have rules, but you have
more exceptions to the rules
than you have rules.
JAKE: [LAUGHS] Right.
And so maybe it's--
I think a new one is not bad.
But the alternative is we
just come up with a name,
a new name that's not
as silly as Smoosh.
SURMA: That's not
flatten and not Smoosh.
JAKE: Exactly.
SURMA: Do you think we
have babbled on enough?
JAKE: We have It does feel like
we have "babled--" babled--
SURMA: Babled on, babled.
JAKE: The library
is Babel, right?
It's pronounced "babble," right?
SURMA: I don't know.
JAKE: No, it is "babble."
SURMA: Is it?
JAKE: Because I'm
quite upset about that
because it was always--
like that word was
always "bay-ble" me.
SURMA: Yeah.
JAKE: Because of "Hitchhiker's
Guide to the Galaxy."
That's the way--
JAKE: The bable fish, yeah.
SURMA: Yeah, the bable fish.